The Plan:

QUESTION: How much of this game takes place on your ship versus off your ship? Not much, just enough to be
an effective privateer

Genre: Privateers

You're a privateer! You've recently been hired by some english investors to
interrupt spanish trade in the Caribbean. You'll have a fixed amount of time to
collect as much money as you can, after which you must sail back to England to 
repay your investors.

** Disclaimer: We won't try to be historically accurate **

Screen Resolution(Does this matter?): I dont think so, it should run on any screen
640 x 480


Setting: Caribbean


Locations(cities/islands/settlements):
Tortuga


Things you can do (actions):
Attack enemy ships (w/ cannons and the like)
Board enemy ships
Buy things
fight (I'm assuming this implies sword fight(maybe includes bar fight))
run (from enemy ships?)
plunder
rest - on your ship, on a deserted island, on the streets, in a tavern
sail - must sail with a destination in mind


Things you can have (items):
Food - Low Monetary Value. Gets eaten by sailors.
Rum - Low Monetary Value. Sailors drink it, keeps up morale.
Oranges - High Monetary Value. 
Sugar - High Monetary Value. 
Wood - Low Monetary Value, required for ship upgrades
Metal - Low Monetary Value, required for ship upgrades
Cloth - Low Monetary Value, required for ship upgrades
Ammo - Low Monetary Value, required for skirmishes


Crew Morale:
On a scale from 0 - 100, player can't see this number directly Players should be able to return or print the morale value
Morale always wants to approach 50
Lack of rum decreases morale.  Rum increases it if it's below 50
Visiting a city increases morale, staying too long decreases morale
Crew deaths decrease morale
Captain hogging money from captured ships decreases morale
If morale drops below 20, the crew commit a mutiny


Things that are bad for you (disease, notoriety, etc):
scurvy - can be cured with oranges
notoriety - The spanish have heard your name and are beginning to recognize your ship.
	This will cause them to attack or run as soon as they see you
ship destroyed - may result in death.  Otherwise, you'll have to be rescued and then buy/capture a new one


Ways the game ends:
murder, assassination - You can be killed by the Spanish, your crew if they commit a mutiny, or you could be assassinated at random intervals
	Assassination would be completely random, more likely with bad notoriety 
Time runs out - Sail back to England to pay off your investors!
Mutiny! - Don't be mean to your crew

Ships:
Schooner < Brig < Galley < Frigate < Man o' war

start with a small size ship. Steal and plunder you're way up to a Man O' War
The fights would be random. Amount of crew to send over can be chosen. Minimum of 10 must remain on ship.
Canons would be on a dice roll, 3 to 2 odds. Larger ships get higher counters when it comes to fighting.
...



Lets start this soon! # Fasho
